Fly Fishing Lures

The object of every fly fisherman is to have the right lure for the fish to strike. Trout are notoriously selective when it comes to feeding for their own instinctual protection. But have the exact size and pattern for each situation is bulky and expensive. So to lure the trout I suggest carrying the following fly fishing lures with you in the water. An Elk Hair Caddis, size 18 (#18), is number one on the list. The caddis hatches are prolific throughout the country and this fly, which is easy to see, will catch trout. A standard Caddis fly, often called a Cinnamon or Brown, should be carried as a backup #20, in case the hatch is small caddis.


The next fly that should be carried is and Adam’s Parachute, the parachute makes this fly easy to see since the fly lies in the film of the water. The Adams parachute is good for many kinds of hatches any when the trout are coming to the top any you can’t see what they’re feeding on. Size 18 is the best but carry a size a few size 20’s to use if the trout don’t respond.

To round out for fly box you should carry the following flies: Blue wing Olive #20, Emerger Pale morning dun #20, both patterns of Hendrickson?s Dark and Light #18. Light Cahill #20, Mosquito #18 and #20, Golden Stonefly #16, Black Stonefly #14 and #12, and if the fish are coming to the surface at all entice them with a Wulff Adams #18 or the deadly Madame X #16.

Now to my favorite way of fishing, because I have caught five times more trout with nymphs than on the surface. Number one in nymph fishing is the Hare’s Ear. A good Hare’s Ear looks like a little bit of wool with some shiny thread woven in. It is the larva of the caddis and is in every stream. I have found that smaller is better when fishing nymphs so some of these sizes might surprise you. I fish a Hare’s Ear size 20 and have caught fish as large as a 12-pound steelhead on one. When I turn over a rock and the stonefly nymphs are numerous, I will which to a black or golden Pheasant Tail (PT) #18. If a stonefly hatch is eminent within a few days, I’ll use a black (#12) or golden (#14) stonefly nymph. If it is a brown trout stream or river like the Madison or Trinity Rivers and my other nymphs aren’t working, I’ll use a Bitch Creek (#16) to scare up some action.

Other nymphs one should carry are: Czech Brown Nymph #20,Scud Olive #20 and the Scud Tan #20. There are two other classes, streamers and emergers. First the streamers, I think you only need two the Muddler minnow and the Woolly Bugger. Again if the fish are off nymphs, you should appeal to their natural instinct to strike a meal that is getting away. I let both streamers drift a bit before I let it swing through the probable feeding area. Strikes are hard and fast. You also can strip either of the streamers through the feeding area. Giving the action of a crippled minnow is the best way to strip the streamers back. As for emergers, I have caught many trout fishing and emerger just below the surface. Caddis take a long time getting to the surface and often struggle getting their wings out. Trout take advantage of this and feast on these cripples without ever breaking the surface. Two excellent nymphs for this are the Emerger Loop Wing Olive #18 and the Emerger Loop Wing Grey #18. Another is a dry fly the Green River Caddis #18 fished with a little Zink on the fly and a foot of the tippet. You can tell when you have a strike by the flash of the trout’s side when he rolls over on the nymph. These fly fishing lures will cover most any trout stream.

via : https://www.mycarpfishing.co.uk/
